in this video I'm going to walk you
through how to pause underperforming ads
in your Google ad account so simply put
you're going to go to the ad section in
your interface and from here you're
going to set some filters so that way we
can see which ads are our
underperformers really easily so first
ad status is enabled we only want to see
active ads second I recommend filtering
based on conversions less than one so
you can see which ads have not driven
any performance at all over its lifetime
if you're optimizing based on AUST
column or a custom conversion then you
can use that and get more specific
instead of conversions less than one so
with these two filters enabled I then
recommend that you sort by cost so then
you can really easily see from top to
bottom which are the ads that are the
most impactful on performance right now
that you should probably consider
pausing so I can see here in this case
I've spent €3,000 on this ad and I've
generated zero conversions that's pretty
awful so I definitely might want to
consider pausing this ad uh based on
performance now you could automate this
as well but I'm walking you through how
to do this manually and uh if you want
to know how to automate this we do talk
about it in our Google ads courses uh
using automated rules but the same logic
would apply so now I can scroll through
and I can see which ads are
underperforming now one column I highly
recommend that you add to your columns
if you're not using it is the percent
served column this column is really
helpful because it tells you how much of
the distribution this ad is getting in
that specific ad group and oftentimes uh
you'll have certain ads that are just
not getting enough distribution so it's
a it's a nice little column to add here
to get a sense of exposure by ad now
anyways you would just go through this
list and just take a look primarily at
the cost per conversion or the uh
conversion volume relative to cost in
addition to that you would look at the
click-through rate just to see if you
notice anything like substantial against
your benchmark so like for example this
first ad this one's a clear c a clear
one to kill because it spent $3,000
hasn't gotten anything but in addition
to that the clickr rate is only
1.87% and you can see you know we've got
clickr rates much higher than that and
this is amongst our worst performing ads
and amongst our best performing ads our
click the rates are above 5% so we know
this ad is pretty pretty terrible so
that's really it you're just going to go
through this process and you would just
pause the ads that are eligible to be
paused and it's really that simple and
when you're ready you can automate this
with automated rules but if you're not
comfortable with that then you could
just do this manually and be able to uh
do this analysis on a weekly basis just
to make sure that any ads that are
underperforming are getting killed and
then what I recommend that you do is
whenever you pause an ad getting in the
habit of creating a new one you ideally
want to have at least two versions of
ads running in your ad groups at all
times so you want to avoid just having
one ad uh at a given time so every time
you pause also get in the habit of
creating so if I were to pause this ad
I'd study the copy um I would go into
the actual ad itself look at the ad
assets see if there's any signals of
like certain headlines that performed
well and then I would reconstruct a new
ad based on the existing assets or just
like new Concepts that I want to test I
hope this was helpful it's really that
simple doesn't need to be more
complicated I'll see you in the next
video